VocaBridge: AI-Powered Voice Translator
VocaBridge is an intelligent, Python-based voice-to-voice translation tool designed to bridge communication gaps between different languages. This AI-powered solution enables users to speak in one language and instantly receive translated audio output in another, making it ideal for multilingual interactions and breaking down language barriers.

Key Features
Speech Recognition: Captures and interprets spoken input using Google Speech Recognition.

Language Detection: Automatically identifies the language of the spoken input with the help of langdetect.

Translation Engine: Translates the detected language into a user-selected target language using deep-translator.

Audio Output: Converts translated text into speech using Google Text-to-Speech (gTTS) and saves it as an audio file.

Multi-Language Support: Currently supports major Indian languages including Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam, and Bengali.

Setup Requirements
Make sure the following Python libraries are installed:

bash
Copy code
pip install speechrecognition deep-translator langdetect gtts
How to Use VocaBridge
Run the Program: Execute the Python script in your development environment.

Choose Target Language: Enter your preferred target language when prompted (e.g., Hindi, Tamil, etc.).

Speak into the Microphone: Speak clearly when prompted with “Listening…”.

View and Hear Results:

Your spoken words will be recognized and displayed.

The spoken language will be automatically detected.

The translated text will be shown in your terminal.

The audio version of the translated output will be saved in the outputs folder and played automatically.

Example Workflow
Input Speech: “Hello, how are you?”

Target Language: Hindi

Output:

Recognized Text: “Hello, how are you?”

Detected Language: en (English)

Translated Text: “नमस्ते, आप कैसे हैं?”

Audio File: outputs/captured_voice_Hindi.mp3

Supported Languages
Language	Code
Hindi	hi
Telugu	te
Tamil	ta
Kannada	kn
Malayalam	ml
Bengali	bn

Important Notes
Ensure your microphone is properly connected and functioning.

For accurate recognition, speak clearly in a quiet environment.

You can expand language support by updating the language_map dictionary in the source code.
